CWEBP(1)                                                              CWEBP(1)



NAME
       cwebp  compress an image file to a WebP file

SYNOPSIS
       cwebp [options] input_file o output_file.webp

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the cwebp command.

       cwebp  compresses  an image using the WebP format.  Input format can be
       either PNG, JPEG, TIFF, WebP or raw YCbCr samples.

OPTIONS
       The basic options are:

      o string
              Specify the name of the output WebP file. If omitted, cwebp will
              perform  compression  but  only report statistics.  Using "" as
              output name will direct output to stdout.

      string
              Explicitly specify the input file. This option is useful if  the
              input  file  starts  with  an  for instance. This option must
              appear last.  Any other options afterward will be ignored.

      h,help
              A short usage summary.

      H,longhelp
              A summary of all the possible options.

      version
              Print the version number (as major.minor.revision) and exit.

      q float
              Specify the compression factor for RGB channels  between  0  and
              100. The default is 75.
              In  case of lossy compression (default), a small factor produces
              a smaller file with lower quality. Best quality is  achieved  by
              using a value of 100.
              In  case  of  lossless  compression  (specified by the lossless
              option), a small factor enables faster  compression  speed,  but
              produces a larger file. Maximum compression is achieved by using
              a value of 100.

      alpha_q int
              Specify the compression factor for alpha compression  between  0
              and  100.   Lossless  compression  of  alpha is achieved using a
              value of 100, while the lower values result in a lossy  compres
              sion. The default is 100.

      f int Specify  the  strength  of  the deblocking filter, between 0 (no
              filtering) and 100 (maximum filtering). A value of 0  will  turn
              off  any  filtering.  Higher value will increase the strength of
              the filtering process applied after decoding  the  picture.  The
              higher  the  value the smoother the picture will appear. Typical
              values are usually in the range of 20 to 50.

      preset string
              Specify a set of predefined parameters  to  suit  a  particular
              type  of  source material. Possible values are:  default, photo,
              picture, drawing, icon, text. Sincepreset overwrites the other
              parameters  values  (except  the q  one),  this option should
              preferably appear first in the order of the arguments.

      sns int
              Specify the amplitude of  the  spatial  noise  shaping.  Spatial
              noise  shaping (or sns for short) refers to a general collection
              of builtin algorithms used to decide which area of the  picture
              should use relatively less bits, and where else to better trans
              fer these bits. The possible range goes  from  0  (algorithm  is
              off) to 100 (the maximal effect). The default value is 80.

      m int Specify  the  compression method to use. This parameter controls
              the trade off between encoding speed  and  the  compressed  file
              size  and  quality.   Possible values range from 0 to 6. Default
              value is 4.  When higher values are used, the encoder will spend
              more  time  inspecting  additional  encoding  possibilities  and
              decide on the quality gain.  Lower value can  result  in  faster
              processing  time  at  the  expense of larger file size and lower
              compression quality.

      jpeg_like
              Change the  internal  parameter  mapping  to  better  match  the
              expected size of JPEG compression. This flag will generally pro
              duce an output file of similar size to its JPEG equivalent  (for
              the sameq setting), but with less visual distortion.

      mt    Use  multithreading  for  encoding, if possible. This option is
              only effective when using lossy compression on a source  with  a
              transparency channel.

      low_memory
              Reduce  memory  usage of lossy encoding by saving four times the
              compressed size (typically). This will make the encoding  slower
              and  the  output slightly different in size and distortion. This
              flag is only effective for methods 3  and  up,  and  is  off  by
              default.  Note  that  leaving  this flag off will have some side
              effects on the bitstream: it forces certain  bitstream  features
              like  number  of  partitions  (forced  to  1).  Note that a more
              detailed report of bitstream size is printed by cwebp when using
              this option.

      af    Turns  autofilter on. This algorithm will spend additional time
              optimizing the filtering strength to reach a wellbalanced qual
              ity.


ADDITIONAL OPTIONS
       More advanced options are:

      sharpness int
              Specify  the  sharpness  of the filtering (if used).  Range is 0
              (sharpest) to 7 (least sharp). Default is 0.

      strong
              Use strong filtering (if filtering is being used thanks  to  the
             f option). Strong filtering is on by default.

      nostrong
              Disable  strong  filtering (if filtering is being used thanks to
              thef option) and use simple filtering instead.

      segments int
              Change the number of partitions to use during  the  segmentation
              of  the  sns  algorithm.  Segments  should  be  in range 1 to 4.
              Default value is 4.  This option has no effect for methods 3 and
              up, unlesslow_memory is used.

      partition_limit int
              Degrade quality by limiting the number of bits used by some mac
              roblocks.  Range is 0 (no degradation, the default) to 100 (full
              degradation).  Useful values are usually around 3070 for moder
              ately large images.  In the VP8 format,  the  socalled  control
              partition has a limit of 512k and is used to store the following
              information: whether the macroblock is skipped, which segment it
              belongs  to,  whether  it  is  coded as intra 4x4 or intra 16x16
              mode, and finally the prediction modes to use for  each  of  the
              subblocks.   For  a  very large image, 512k only leaves room to
              few bits per 16x16 macroblock.  The absolute minimum is  4  bits
              per  macroblock.  Skip, segment, and mode information can use up
              almost all these 4 bits (although the case is  unlikely),  which
              is problematic for very large images. The partition_limit factor
              controls how frequently the most  bitcostly  mode  (intra  4x4)
              will  be  used. This is useful in case the 512k limit is reached
              and the following message is displayed: Error  code:  6  (PARTI_
              TION0_OVERFLOW:  Partition #0 is too big to fit 512k).  If using
             partition_limit is not enough to meet the 512k constraint,  one
              should  use  less segments in order to save more header bits per
              macroblock.  See thesegments option.

      size int
              Specify a target size (in bytes) to try and reach for  the  com
              pressed  output.   Compressor  will make several pass of partial
              encoding in order to get as close as possible to this target.

      psnr float
              Specify a target PSNR (in dB) to try  and  reach  for  the  com
              pressed  output.   Compressor  will make several pass of partial
              encoding in order to get as close as possible to this target.

      pass int
              Set a maximum number of passes to use during the dichotomy  used
              by optionssize orpsnr. Maximum value is 10.

      resize width height
              Resize  the  source to a rectangle with size width x height.  If
              either (but not both) of the width or height  parameters  is  0,
              the value will be calculated preserving the aspectratio.

      crop x_position y_position width height
              Crop  the  source to a rectangle with topleft corner at coordi
              nates (x_position, y_position) and size width  x  height.   This
              cropping  area must be fully contained within the source rectan
              gle.

      s width height
              Specify that the input file actually consists of raw YCbCr sam
              ples  following the ITUR BT.601 recommendation, in 4:2:0 linear
              format.  The luma plane has size width x height.

      map int
              Output additional ASCIImap of  encoding  information.  Possible
              map  values range from 1 to 6. This is only meant to help debug
              ging.

      pre int
              Specify some preprocessing steps. Using a  value  of  2  will
              trigger   qualitydependent   pseudorandom   dithering   during
              RGBA>YUVA conversion (lossy compression only).

      alpha_filter string
              Specify the predictive filtering method for the alpha plane. One
              of  none, fast or best, in increasing complexity and slow
              ness order. Default is fast. Internally,  alpha  filtering  is
              performed  using  four  possible  predictions (none, horizontal,
              vertical, gradient). The best mode will try each mode in  turn
              and  pick  the one which gives the smaller size. The fast mode
              will just try to form an  apriori  guess  without  testing  all
              modes.

      alpha_method int
              Specify  the algorithm used for alpha compression: 0 or 1. Algo
              rithm 0 denotes no compression, 1 uses WebP lossless format  for
              compression. The default is 1.

      alpha_cleanup
              Modify  unseen  RGB values under fully transparent area, to help
              compressibility.  The default is off.

      blend_alpha int
              This option blends the  alpha  channel  (if  present)  with  the
              source  using  the  background color specified in hexadecimal as
              0xrrggbb. The alpha channel is afterward  reset  to  the  opaque
              value 255.

      noalpha
              Using this option will discard the alpha channel.

      lossless
              Encode the image without any loss.

      hint string
              Specify  the  hint  about input image type. Possible values are:
              photo, picture or graph.

      metadata string
              A comma separated list of metadata to copy from the input to the
              output  if  present.   Valid  values: all, none, exif, icc, xmp.
              The default is none.

              Note: each input format may not support all combinations.

      noasm Disable all assembly optimizations.

      v     Print extra information (encoding time in particular).

      print_psnr
              Compute and report average PSNR (PeakSignalToNoise ratio).

      print_ssim
              Compute and report average SSIM (structural  similarity  metric,
              see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SSIM for additional details).

      print_lsim
              Compute  and report local similarity metric (sum of lowest error
              amongst the collocated pixel neighbors).

      progress
              Report encoding progress in percent.

      quiet Do not print anything.

      short Only print brief information (output file  size  and  PSNR)  for
              testing purpose.


BUGS
       Please     report     all     bugs     to     our     issue    tracker:
       http://code.google.com/p/webp/issues
       Patches welcome! See this  page  to  get  started:  http://www.webmpro
       ject.org/code/contribute/submittingpatches/


EXAMPLES
       cwebp q 50 lossless picture.png o picture_lossless.webp
       cwebp q 70 picture_with_alpha.png o picture_with_alpha.webp
       cwebp sns 70 f 50 size 60000 picture.png o picture.webp
       cwebp o picture.webp  picture.png


AUTHORS
       cwebp was written by the WebP team.
       The latest source tree is available at http://www.webmproject.org/code

       This   manual   page  was  written  by  Pascal  Massimino  <pascal.mas
       simino@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by  others).


SEE ALSO
       dwebp(1), gif2webp(1)
       Please refer to http://developers.google.com/speed/webp/ for additional
       information.



                                 Oct 13, 2014                         CWEBP(1)
